Pandemic and other updates (#1)
dinane/self: README.md

```

## The most important thing
I trust and expect my teams to do good work without me digging into the details, but I can and will dig when you or I need to. I expect you to be the experts.

## What you can expect from me

### My working time

> I tend to work from 9:30-5:30 Eastern. I check slack and email earlier in the morning on my phone but it is rare that I will respond then and I definitely don't expect responses if I do. I log out at 5:30 every day to be with my family and will not check slack or email after that time. For emergencies you can text me. Because I don't check slack or email outside of my own decision to be working, you should feel totally safe to send me something at any time and I will read it when I'm back online.

Reviewer: The wording on the second sentence is strange. Maybe:

```suggestion
I tend to work from 9:30-5:30 Eastern. I check slack and email earlier in the morning on my phone but it is rare that I will respond then and I definitely don't expect responses if I do. I log out at 5:30 every day to be with my family and will not check slack or email after that time. For emergencies you can text me. Feel free to send me a slack or email at any time: off-hours I will not get notified. Just don't expect a response until I'm back online.
```

Author: I agree this is clearer, though it doesn't feel like my tone of voice, so I'll tweak it.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, I use Care Time primarily to spend time with my daughter to help her with schoolwork or make sure she has something interesting to do. I may also use Care Time for groceries or to just take a walk.

When I go on vacation, I unplug. I assign members of my team to cover various aspects of my role if the vacation is more than 2 days - for 2 or fewer days I assume everything can wait. If something catches fire you can text me, but please try not to light any fires when I'm gone.

I encourage you to own your calendar and your separation of work and home life. Block off commute time (yes even during the pandemic, my calendar now labels that "Family Time"). Take Care Time. Unplug when on vacation.

### 1:1s

> I will never cancel a 1:1 that can be rescheduled. I will add additional 1:1s if you ask for them. I will always respond to pings of "hey can we chat for a minte?" and will find the time. Please let me schedule the 1:1 so I can reschedule when necessary.

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be:

```suggestion
I will never cancel a 1:1 that cannot be rescheduled. I will add additional 1:1s if you ask for them. I will always respond to pings of "hey can we chat for a minte?" and will find the time. Please let me schedule the 1:1 so I can reschedule when necessary.
```

Author: I'm pretty sure I thought I meant what I wrote. Maybe I should rethink the whole sentence with fewer negatives.

"I will always try to reschedule your 1:1 rather than cancel it if I have conflicts."

I will schedule 1:1 meetings with you at your request - I am open to skip-level 1:1s any time you desire them. This time is for you - I'm happy to talk about anything that interests you, from your own work to your team to your manager to things happening across the company. I also host open office hours from time to time and will post about them in slack.

### Goals

> I will happily and regularly discuss personal growth goals with you verbally. For these conversations, I will take notes, but I will not turn them into a formal document for you. It is up to you to own your goals, and document them in ways that help you keep track.

Reviewer: commas are hard

```suggestion
I will happily and regularly discuss personal growth goals with you verbally. For these conversations I will take notes, but I will not turn them into a formal document for you. It is up to you to own your goals and document them in ways that help you keep track.
```

### Reviews

> When we revisit your goals at formal review time, I will come with my notes and some prepared thoughts on how you're doing against the goals as I understood them. I expect you to come with your version of the same. I will also do extensive 360 feedback for you against your level and role, and will bring that information in a digestable format for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we revisit your goals at formal review time I will come with my notes and some prepared thoughts on how you're doing against the goals as I understood them. I expect you to come with your version of the same. I will also do extensive 360 feedback for you against your level and role and will bring that information in a digestable format for you.
```

Author: This sentence is still a run-on and needs refactoring. But I'll take your suggestion first.

> Formal review time should not be surprising - we should have discussed everything continuously. I strive to make formal reviews very boring by having all of our 1:1s be valuable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Formal review time should not be surprising-- we should have discussed everything continuously. I strive to make formal reviews very boring by having all of our 1:1s be valuable.
```

### Meetings

> Meetings are a tool to force progress in communication. They are not the only way to make progress nor are they the only way to communicate. The owner of a meeting decides through their actions what the outcome of the meeting should be. If there is a decision to be made, it should be clearly called out in the agenda or invitation. If it's more about information sharing or teaching, the meeting probably should be recorded for later watching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Meetings are a tool to force progress in communication. They are not the only way to make progress and they are not the only way to communicate. The owner of a meeting decides through their actions what the outcome of the meeting should be. If there is a decision to be made it should be clearly called out in the agenda or invitation. If the meeting is about information sharing or teaching then it should be recorded for later watching.
```

> * I am working on understanding introverts. I generally come up ENFJ on Myers-Briggs scales. I am highly aware that engineers are rarely extroverts. I thrive and gain energy from talking to people, and while I know that this is not the case for introverts I sometimes need to be reminded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* I am working on understanding introverts. I generally come up ENFJ on Myers-Briggs scales. I am highly aware that engineers are rarely extroverts. I thrive and gain energy from talking to people and while I know that this is not the case for introverts, I sometimes need to be reminded.
```

Author: This one is still a run-on, I'll address in a follow up

> ## My Background

Reviewer: Be consistent with English or American title case.

```suggestion
## My background
```

> I am what I think of as a Creative Engineer. I went to Worcester Polytechnic Institute and received dual Bachelor's degrees in Computer Science and Music. I wrote a lot of code before I got into management: I have been a firmware engineer, a database architect, a web backend engineer, a web frontend engineer, a desktop engineer, and a mobile engineer - I even spent some time as the closest thing to a visual designer that you can be without a lick of training. But it's been a while since I wrote production code. I trust my team leads and engineers to be the experts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I am what I think of as a Creative Engineer. I went to Worcester Polytechnic Institute and received dual Bachelor's degrees in Computer Science and Music. I wrote a lot of code before I got into management: I have been a firmware engineer, a database architect, a web backend engineer, a web frontend engineer, a desktop engineer, and a mobile engineer. I even spent some time as the closest thing to a visual designer that you can be without a lick of training. But it's been a while since I wrote production code. I trust my team leads and engineers to be the experts.
```

I love to sing. Sometimes I sing at my desk. I try not to do that too much.

> I have a young daughter who is obsessed with superheroes (especially Batman), dolls (especially Barbies), playing pretend (especially Star Trek) and cats (especially our own).

Reviewer: If you're going to use the Oxford comma, at least be consistent about it.

```suggestion
I have a young daughter who is obsessed with superheroes (especially Batman), dolls (especially Barbies), playing pretend (especially Star Trek), and cats (especially our own).
```
